Your feedback will help us fine-tuning our newly revamped website. Share Feedback
Ballari is situated on the eastern side of Karnataka and is surrounded by Raichur and Koppal on the north, Haveri and...
Ballari is situated on the eastern side of Karnataka and is surrounded by Raichur and Koppal on the north, Haveri and Gadag on the west, Chitradurga and Davanagere on the south, and Anantapur and Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh) on the east. Ballari has been a meeting place for people from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh hence offering a tradition and culture mix of both the states.
Ballari has a very diverse and rich past. Mythologically, Ballari was closely associated with the epic Ramayana with the mythical kingdom of Kishkinda, the famed monkey kingdom which was inhabited by Vanaras (monkeys). Anjaneya Hill, located across the river Tungabhadra, is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. There are many more incidents of Ramayana associated with this place. Another legend associated with is Goddess Pampadevi, who is believed to have done penance on the bank of the River Pampa (Tungabhadra) and as the result of which she was able to marry Lord Shiva, who was also called Virupaksha to whom the celebrated ancient temple in Hampi is dedicated. The marriage of Lord Shiva and Goddess Pampadevi is still recreated annually here. In terms of archaeology, Ballari is one of those regions where the existence of man has been found with excavations here dating to the Neolithic period in places like Ballari, Sanganakallu-Kupgal, etc. But perhaps, the most important chapter in Ballari’s history has been the Vijayanagara Empire with the UNESCO World Heritage site Hampi. Vijayanagara Empire at its peak was very prosperous and was believed to be larger than Rome with palaces grander than Lisbon. There were opulent palaces, marvelous temples, massive fortifications, baths, markets, aqua-ducts, pavilions, stables for royal elephants, and elegantly carved pillars. This was a city whose merchants traded in diamonds, pearls, horses, fine silks, and brocades. Today, Ballari is popular for cotton, one of their major crops, and the city is known to have a thriving cotton industry. This district is endowed with rich mineral resources especially iron ore and hence is aptly called “The Iron City”.
For further information, visit the official district website click here!
When to go: The monsoon (July-September) and winter (November-February). Catch the 3-day Hampi Fest in November. In Jan-Feb check out the legendary Virupaksha Temple Car Festival and the annual Purandaradasa Aradhana Music Festival at Vithala. Temple
Office Of The Deputy Director Department of Tourism Near Lotus Mahal, Kamalapura, Hospet Cell: +91-9880-404150″
Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation
Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation
Head Office Address: Commissioner's Office
Department of Tourism 5th Floor, Indhana Bhavan, Race Course Road,
Last reviewed and Updated on: 11 February 2026
Last reviewed and Updated on: 11 February 2026
Copyright © 2026 Department of Tourism, Government of Karnataka. All rights reserved