Your feedback will help us fine-tuning our newly revamped website. Share Feedback
Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation
Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation
Head Office Address: Commissioner's Office
Department of Tourism 5th Floor, Indhana Bhavan, Race Course Road,
Last reviewed and Updated on: 11 February 2026
Last reviewed and Updated on: 11 February 2026
Copyright © 2026 Department of Tourism, Government of Karnataka. All rights reserved
Geographically, Mandya is surrounded by Tumkuru in the north, Ramanagara in the east, Chamrajanagara and Mysuru in the south and Hassan in the west. Mandya is also known as the land of five rivers due to the presence of the rivers Cauvery, Hemavathi, Shimsha, Veeravaishnavi and Lokapavani. These rivers give Mandya both religious importance and scenic beauty. Mandya has been ruled by many dynasties like Gangas, Cholas, Hoysalas, Vijayanagara, Prabhus of Nagamangala and Wadiyars but the major influence has by Hyder Ali-Tipu Sultan regime as they had their capital in Srirangapatna. Few prehistoric settlements have also been found in these areas that include Pandavapura, Kuntibetta and Belakavadi. Mandya also has links to the Indian epics Ramayana and Mahabharatha.
Mandya is one of the most agriculturally prosperous districts in Karnataka. With the advent of irrigation from the KRS reservoir during 1930’s, there was substantially marked transformation in cropping pattern, and better grown yield level, ultimately leading to better economic conditions of the people. The major crops include Ragi, Paddy and Pulses like Horse gram. But the main crop is Sugarcane. Jaggery and Sugar industries contribute a major chunk to the local economy and hence Mandy is also popular as “Sakkare Nagara” (City of Sugar).
In terms of tourist attractions, Mandya is always in the tourist itinerary list as most people visiting Mysuru visit few of the attractions here due to its proximity. KRS Dam and Brindavan Gardens is perhaps the biggest tourist attraction apart from Shivanasumudra Falls, Srirangapatna, Ranganatha Swamy Temple, Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary among others.
Maddur Vada is a famous delicacy from Mandya district which is best enjoyed with a hot cup of filter coffee.
For further information, visit the official district website click here!